blog: adding new pandas blog (#1450)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2023-03-09-loading-pandas-dataframes-to-questdb.mdx

  Python package to ingest Pandas DataFrames.
keywords:
  - timeseries
  - questdb
  - pandas
  - dataframes
  - python
  - database
tags: [tutorial, timeseries, pandas, python, dataframes, questdb]
image: "/img/blog/2023-03-09/banner.png"
slug: laoding-pandas-dataframes
---

import Banner from "@theme/Banner"

<Banner
  alt="Picture showing a person surrounded by screen with Python functions, QuestDB logo, Python logo, and Pandas logo in the background."
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2023-03-09/banner.png"
  width={770}
/>

Learn how to improve your time series analysis capability by using the QuestDB
Python package to ingest Pandas DataFrames.

<!--truncate-->

## Introduction

Pandas is an open-source data analysis and data manipulation library for Python
that has become an essential tool for data scientists and analysts. It provides
a simple and intuitive way to manipulate data, making it a popular choice for
data analysis tasks. However, while Pandas is excellent for small to
medium-sized datasets, it can struggle with large datasets that exceed the
available memory of the machine it is running on. This is where QuestDB excels,

> designed specifically for high-performance and low-latency operations in such

Author: ```suggestion
designed specifically for high-performance operations in such
```

> designed specifically for high-performance and low-latency operations in such

Author: ```suggestion
designed specifically for high-performance operations in such
```

scenarios, making it the go-to solution for demanding data analysis tasks. By
loading Pandas DataFrames into QuestDB, we can leverage
[powerful data processing capabilities](https://github.com/questdb/py-tsbs-benchmark#serialization-network-send--data-insertion-into-questdb)
of the database, allowing you to scale your analysis and data manipulation

> operations to large datasets. In this tutorial, we will learn how to load large
> Pandas dataframes into QuestDB. We use yellow and green taxi trip records

Author: ```suggestion
operations to large datasets. We will learn how to load large
Pandas dataframes into QuestDB. We use yellow and green taxi trip records
```

> published by NYC Taxi & Limousine Commission as our data source.

Reviewer: Delete first `In this tutorial.. ` repeated sentence.

Keep the second one which correctly starts a new paragraph.

In this tutorial, we will learn how to load large Pandas dataframes into
QuestDB. We use yellow and green taxi trip records published by NYC Taxi &
Limousine Commission as our data source.

## Prerequisites

For this tutorial, it is recommended to have a basic understanding of Python,
and SQL. Also, you will need to have the following installed on your machine:

- Docker

## Getting the data to ingest

Before we begin loading the data into QuestDB, we need to obtain the data that
we will be working with. As mentioned above, we will use the NYC TLC’s records
of yellow and green taxi trips. Let’s download the data:

> 1. Create a new directory called pandas-to-questdb and a data directory inside

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create a new directory called `pandas-to-questdb` and a `data` directory inside
```

   that.
1. Edit and execute the following command in your terminal to download the
   parquet files:

```shell
curl -L -o ./data/yellow_tripdata_2022-<MONTH>.parquet https://d37ci6vzurychx.cloudfront.net/trip-data/yellow_tripdata_2022-<MONTH>.parquet
```

Make sure you replace `<MONTH>` with the zero-prefixed number of the month you
wish to download (between 01 and 11, the 12th month is not available at the time
of writing).

Now, we have the data to ingest. It is time to try loading it using Pandas.

## Loading records into memory

You may already have noticed that the downloaded files are in Parquet format.
Parquet is a columnar storage format commonly used for big data processing. They
are optimized for use with modern big data processing engines and provide
efficient storage and retrieval of data compared to traditional row-based
storage formats like CSV and JSON.

> Before being able to load any data, we are going to set up a simulation

Reviewer: simulation -> simulated production

Author: ```suggestion
Before being able to load any data, we are going to set up a simulation production
```

[InfluxDB Line Protocol (ILP)](/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/) over TCP for
maximum throughput.

To handle large datasets, we will read files one by one and transfer their
contents to QuestDB. Then, we will use QuestDB to query the data and load the
results back into Pandas DataFrames. Refactor the data loader based on the
above:

```python title= "data_loader.py"

# data_loader.py

import os
import glob
import pandas as pd
from questdb.ingress import Sender

def main():
   files = glob.glob(os.path.join("data", "*.parquet"))

   with Sender("127.0.0.1", 9009) as sender:
       for file in files:
           df = pd.read_parquet(file)
           print(f"ingesting {len(df.index)} rows from {file}")
           sender.dataframe(df, table_name="trips", at="tpep_pickup_datetime")

if __name__ == "__main__":
   main()
```

Let's start from the beginning. The first major change you'll notice is that we
need to specify the hostname and port number in the script in order to run it.

Then we iterate over the parquet files and load them into memory using Pandas.
After that, utilizing QuestDB’s Python client, we are ingesting to QuestDB
directly from Pandas DataFrames.

> In the Python container, run python data_loader.py. When the parquet file is

Reviewer: backtick-quote `python data_loader.py`.

Also the follow-up sentence is a bit broken.

Maybe rephrase as:

The script will ingest one parquet file at a time.

> In the Python container, run python data_loader.py. When the parquet file is
> loading, ingestion starts.
> 
> ## Working with trip data
> 

Author: ```suggestion
In the Python container, run python data_loader.py. The script will ingest one parquet file at a time.

## Working with trip data

```
